# Summary

- This is the third project in Udacity's Data Engineering Nanodegree Program.
- As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, 
and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users 
are listening to. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from 
Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.
- In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. 
To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics 
tables from these staging tables.

## Source data
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

- Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
- Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

## Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and 
the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to 
two files in this dataset.

## Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These 
simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

# Database schema

Below are the fact and dimension tables made for this project:

## Tables of dimensions:
- users
columns: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

- songs
columns: song_id, title, artist_id, año, duración

- artists
columns: artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

- time
columns: start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Fact Table:
- songplays: songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

# Project Steps
Below are steps you can follow to complete each component of this project.

## Create Table Schemas
1. Design schemas for your fact and dimension tables
2. Write a SQL CREATE statement for each of these tables in sql_queries.py
3. Complete the logic in create_tables.py to connect to the database and create these tables
4. Write SQL DROP statements to drop tables in the beginning of create_tables.py if the tables already exist. This way, you can run create_tables.py whenever you want to reset your database and test your ETL pipeline.
5. Launch a redshift cluster and create an IAM role that has read access to S3.
6. Add redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.
7. Test by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in your redshift database. You can use Query Editor in the AWS Redshift console for this.

## Build ETL Pipeline
1. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift.
2. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.
3. Test by running etl.py after running create_tables.py and running the analytic queries on your Redshift database to compare your results with the expected results.
4. Delete your redshift cluster when finished.
